What is IAC? Why terraform ?

Infrastructure as code where we provide, automate and manage the infrastructure.
Terraform is the one of the most used IAC tool to manage, track, automate and Standardize configuration.

Terraform works as API as code. For creating infrastructure terraform uses api to communicate with the providers.
It uses HCL language HashiCorp Configuration Language which is human readeable
We can commit our configuartion  in version control like github or git lab
Terraform's state allows you to track resource changes throughout your deployments.


What are modules?
A module is a container for multiple resources that are used together.

what is state file ?
State file is a key component in terraform, it keeps track of resources which got executed.

what are common used terraform commands?

Terraform  init          Prepare your working directory for other commands
Terraform  validate      Check whether the configuration is valid
Terraform plan          Show changes required by the current configuration
Terraform  apply         Create or update infrastructure
Terraform  destroy       Destroy previously-created infrastructure
Terraform Version
Terraform console
Terraform output


what is terraform backend?

Whereever we store state file is considered as terraform backend.

what is terraform remote backend?

In some scenarios like multiple teams uses the terraform scripts simultaneously we might receive conflicts from providers so we store state files remotely and apply locking.
 
How to handle secrets in Terraform?

Can handle using terraform remote backend with restricted permission using RBAC.


What is resource graph in terraform?

This is dependency graph which helps showing output of terraform plan and apply

what is terraform state locking?
In some scenarios like multiple teams uses the terraform scripts simultaneously we might receive conflicts from providers so we store state files remotely and apply locking.

ex: DynamoDB

What is tainted terraform resource?

Using terraform taint command inform that an object is degraded or damaged.
Terraform represents this by marking the object as "tainted" in the Terraform state, and
Terraform will propose to replace it in the next plan you create. 
Warning: This command is deprecated.

What is terraform state rollback?
not suggestable 

Terraform validate:
It checks the syntax of all the files created which ignores formatting poroblems

What would you choose in between terraform and ansible ? why?
Terraform     Ansible
HCL      		YAML
Hashicorp		Red hat
creating infra  manage configuartion



What if terraform state file is deleted?
So if the state file gets lost, Terraform will think it never created those resources in the first place and will try to duplicate everything.


What are terraform modules?
Root module:
Every Terraform configuration has at least one module, known as its root module, which consists of the resources defined in the .tf files in the main working directory.
Child module:
Any module that can be called by another module (usually the Root module) is considered a child module.
Published Modules:
Published Modules are modules pushed to a private or public repository. 



How do you pass runtime variables in Terraform?

Using the -var Command-line Flag

The -var flag is used to pass values for Input Variables to Terraform commands. 
The argument passed to the -var flag is a string surrounded by either single or double quotes.


